Proverbs 10:22 states:
“It is the blessing of Jehovah
that makes one rich,
and He adds no pain with it.”
Jehovah blesses those he loves
with gifts of divine approval,
guidance, and spiritual prosperity.
And when we enter
‘a door of Kingdom activity’ in faith,
we are putting ourselves in line
for a rich blessing from Jehovah.
One of those doors
is the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
Now, what just came to your mind
when you heard that?
Did you think: ‘Well, that’s a great school
if you have special circumstances
to apply for it,’
or ‘I’m too old for that,’
or ‘I’m too young for that,’
or ‘I’m already serving
where the need is great; I’m needed here,’
or ‘They could send me anywhere
after the school,
and I’m not really comfortable with that’?
Those are honest feelings—and understandable.
But we want to be careful that feelings
don’t turn into stumbling stones
that would prevent us
from receiving a blessing from Jehovah.
Let’s use Timothy as an example
of one who entered
‘a door of Kingdom activity’
and received Jehovah’s rich blessing.
Timothy received a personal invitation
from the apostle Paul to expand his ministry.
At first glance,
the two men probably looked nothing alike.
So imagine that scene.
Paul was older, a man of experience.
Timothy was young,
probably in his late teens or early 20’s.
Paul was bold in his speech,
tireless in his ministry,
and resilient to opposition.
Yet, on the other hand,
the Scriptures indicate
that young Timothy was perhaps shy,
hesitant, and lacked self-confidence.
What stumbling stones
could have existed
in Timothy’s mind
as he pondered Paul’s invitation?
Well, let’s open our Bibles
to 2 Timothy chapter 3
and read verses 10 and 11,
and we’ll find out—
2 Timothy chapter 3,
and we’re going to read verses 10 and 11.
Now, notice that Paul wrote this to Timothy
many years later,
but let’s see what we can learn
—verse 10:
“But you have closely followed my teaching,
“my course of life,
“my purpose, my faith,
my patience, my love, my endurance,
“the persecutions and sufferings
“such as I experienced
in [now notice] Antioch,
in Iconium, [and] in Lystra.”
Now, where was Timothy from?
Lystra.
The young man likely witnessed
how Paul suffered ruthless beatings in Lystra
at the hands of opposers.
Can you feel Timothy’s possible hesitation
as he now looks at Paul
extending his hand out to him,
perhaps even eyeing the scars of Paul,
and Paul says, “Come with me”?
Timothy had to wonder:
‘If I go with you, it’s not going to be easy.
Will I suffer as you suffered?’
Another possible stumbling stone for Timothy
was the fact that he was already serving
in a capable way
in the newly formed congregation in Lystra
and “was well-reported-on by the brothers.”
And now Paul was asking him to leave it all,
including his family and friends.
Timothy could have reasoned:
‘They need me; my mother needs me;
my grandmother needs me here.
Maybe I can join Paul in a few years
when I gain more experience.’
And perhaps yet another stumbling stone
for Timothy could have been the fact
that he did not know
where his assignment would take him.
Lystra was a small,
rustic town secluded in a valley.
He knew the people, the landscape,
the food, the language, the culture.
Timothy knew that accompanying Paul
meant venturing into the unknown.
He had to wonder:
‘Am I really ready for this?
‘I have a weak stomach,
and it’s already feeling weaker
just thinking about going with Paul.’
Can you see yourself in Timothy?
He no doubt had some real concerns
before accepting Paul’s offer.
But what did Timothy’s faith
allow him to see?
Well, let’s read again
Paul’s words at 2 Timothy,
this time verse 11, but verse 11b
—2 Timothy 3:11b:
“I endured these persecutions.”
And now note this:
“And the Lord rescued me from them all.”
Timothy witnessed firsthand
how Jehovah rescued and strengthened Paul.
So, yes, in faith Timothy
did enter the door of activity,
and he had worked together
with Paul for many years.
But think of the blessings he received
because of his decision to join Paul.
He observed how Paul navigated
through each trial
and how Paul kept his inner peace.
Timothy saw not just the inconveniences
or the sufferings of Paul,
but he had observed Paul’s stabilizing joy.
And he witnessed how Jehovah
helped him each step of the way.
With Jehovah’s help,
Timothy stretched
beyond his somewhat shy, hesitant nature
to reach his full potential
as a zealous overseer
in support of the truth.
Now, in the following video,
note what reasoning helped Gabriel
decide to apply
for the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
At our convention, they had the meeting
My friend Anton asked if I was going to go.
Hi, Gabriel.
Oh, hi, Anton.
Are you coming?
Uh, to what?
The SKE meeting.
Oh, uh, no.
I wasn’t planning on it,
but all right, yeah, sure.
I’ll go.
OK, then, and afterward, I can . . .
I went, but I felt conflicted.
I thought,
‘I already have an assignment,
one that I love.’
But I didn’t fully understand
the incredible privilege of attending SKE.
I asked the circuit overseer
a few more questions.
And it felt like, this is it!
It seemed right,
and all I had to do was apply online.
But that was months ago.
So, what’s holding you back?
I feel like Jehovah led me here,
and I’ve never been happier.
But now another door has opened,
and the fear is back.
It doesn’t matter how far you’ve come.
Fear of the unknown can be overwhelming.
Sometimes you need a reminder that Jehovah
is leading you in the right direction.
Here’s one to keep in mind
—Philippians 4:13.
Read it, and just think
about how far Jehovah has taken you.
“For all things I have the strength
through the one who gives me power.”
Jehovah is in control.
What was I so afraid of?
I’m bringing too much.
Well, SKE is for two months.
Oh, you’re just alike you two,
bringing every last thing with you.
Can I—can I leave this with you?
It’s been on a few adventures,
but it’s still great for traveling.
Really?
Yeah, please.
Who knows, you might need it sometime soon.
Did you notice how faith was shown?
Gabriel was in fear of the unknown.
But Philippians 4:13 touched his heart,
stirred his feelings,
and helped him to trust in Jehovah
and move forward in faith
and apply for the School
for Kingdom Evangelizers.
If you choose to enter
through the door of SKE,
you will receive specialized training
so that you can be used more fully
by Jehovah and his organization.
Remember, it’s not a leap of faith
with no idea of how things might turn out.
It is an informed decision
with a guaranteed outcome
of blessings from Jehovah.
Will you trust that Jehovah
will help you every step of the way?
If so, like Timothy,
you will experience firsthand
how “the blessing of Jehovah . . .
makes . . . rich.”
Brother Robert Luccioni,
a helper to the Publishing Committee,
will now consider the next talk
of this symposium,
“Enter the Door to Activity in Faith
—Assist With a Theocratic Building Project.”